---
layout: post
title: 2013 retrospective
---
h1. {{ page.title }}

This year the project I got most involved was "Rocket Lease":https://www.rocketlease.com.  It is an online rental application management system.  Although there was some interesting technical problems, like building a drag and drop UI for creating your own customized application form or even the implementation of a "signature plugin in javascript":http://blog.ezliu.com/online-signatures/, the most of time we spent on trying to figure how to attract new customers.  It is hard.

I won't give numbers, but one of the best approaches we had was using "customer.io":http://customer.io for sending emails to customers depending on how they interacted (or the lack of interaction).  That bought us customers back, because, yes, people _does_ forget about what they were trying.

Rocket Lease is special, we give our best to attract and retain customers, the support is fast and effective, the UI is dead simple and, most importantly, we are not trying to solve all of the world's problems; we are focused in one, and only one, specific problem that property managers and rental agencies has.

Rocket Lease is challenging;  for a software developer like me, it means that you will have to find your way on building stuff that will keep customers around and not just write code and forget about it.

This year I also tried a partnership with a friend from Austin, but it didn't work.  I was going to be paid with equity position, but it is really hard to figure out how much your time is worth it, specially since their project was around for some years and it seems like the more you try and the more you fail, the less your project is worth it, right?  So yes, it is not about a new project with lots of chance to work, but a project with lots of chance to fail... It was real hard, because I really like that friend and I know I would learn lots of things, but the project would demand too much of my time (and my money, since I would not be paid).  Sad.

I've also been involved with "Voixtel":http://www.voixtel.com.br, a company from Brazil, being responsible for development of analytics reports for a VoIP system, callcenter queues monitoring and a billing platform.  Here, the interesting part is about the amount of data we are handling; currently, the billing platform has more than 20 million records.  The analytics reports are split by client, so it is safe to say they have millions of records as well, but it is easier to deal with it because the data are split across many servers.

As for the technologies, I've been working mainly with Python, Django and Javascript.  But most important than that I've been happily playing with UNIX tools and sometimes I feel like "technology plumbing" is the way to go.  You know, small components connected by a well defined interface (in this case, the very plain text).  *I love it all*.

